So think about in your app,
how do you lower the risk of change?
Once we've fixed a bug,
how do we prevent it from happening again?
This is really just about having a good
think about it, after you've fix the bug,
over a beer at the pub, cuz you've all
ready released it and you're good.
Think about what could we have
done to have that not happen?
Am I missing a test somewhere?
Maybe I didn't test a particular scenario
in IE nine that I really should have.
And I should need to go back and
write a new end to end test or
maybe I need to update my process.
Maybe I need to say, you know what,
I really should have a code review
that covers this particular thing
every time I do this kind of change.
Maybe I should be pairing with somebody or
maybe it's nothing even that
maybe I just need to run one more kind
of update as part of my automation.
Think about what kind of
automation you can put in place so
that you're not introducing manual
steps or you might just do nothing.
Remember that there is
a cost to everything we do.
Tests are not free.
Automation is not free.
Process not free.
If it's a stupid little bug,
that was a stupid little mistake and
you'll never make it again, then don't
increase your overall operation cost for
something that's never
going to happen again.
>> I do feel like I have
a story around that whole
like-
>> Yeah, bring up.
What's your story?
>> Yeah, so I mean with our,
with our player experiences obviously
what we do for our members is we deliver
video like that needs to happen,
>> Delivering the video is the competitive
advantage of your company.
It's like you have to do this really well.
>> Yeah, exactly,
it needs to be a great experience.
And so, we had a video host and I don't
wanna mention them by names to throw
him under the bus or anything, but
we noticed errors coming through and
there's literally nothing that we can do
to fix it because it's third party code
unless we go in and
patch there minified mucked up.
>> Just go ahead and monkey patch.
>> So
we actually got them to install TrackJS to
prove to them that this
error was indeed happening.
And so I think they still have Track,
they're using it, but it was,
no, you need to install this to see this
error happening because it's happening and
it's happening to a large
percentage of our users.
And so yeah, that's actually how
we had to come to the conclusion
of building everything custom,
building everything from the ground up.
This is our main core business, so
we had to rip that third party code out,
which was the player, right,
and build from scratch.
And it did take us over six months,
there's a lot of engineering.
There's a lot of decisions to be made,
but we deployed it.
And now when a bug comes up in Track,
right-
>> [LAUGH].
>> We can actually fix it now, because we
own that entire stack from nuts to bolts,
every part of that code is within
our system delivered via CVN.
So it has been wonderful, right?
Because there's people that just
could not use our system before.
And there was third party things that were
happening, especially in certain countries
and now we're able to verify that indeed
that it's actually a there are no
errors happening on that page for those
users in that country in that region.
And it's fantastic.
And so yeah, thank you Todd for
making such a great product
that we were able to develop-
>> [LAUGH]
>> And have it running and so
we we do rely on Track and
we, it's a never ending battle,
especially with third party JavaScript.
It's like, you've got Intercom, you've
got trackers, you've got all this stuff.
>> Cause they all have teams that are
running it stuff just as fast as you are.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're all running in
different directions.
>> Yeah, I mean the more you can eliminate
third party code and have it in house,
at least for your core, the things that
you're supposed to do well as a business.
>> Yeah.
>> That's really important.
That's my little-
>> Good thank you.
That was actually a fantastic example of
thinking through the bugs that you were
having as Mark would run into
problems with the video player.
And having a good think on
why were those happening?
What could you do to change it and
ended up making an architectural change,
which kind of goes to this next point of
thinking about your bug code as a proxy to
what part of your code has
different levels of design quality.
And so here is my super awesome generic,
all purpose architecture.
You get requests coming in the front
door and it goes to the Doerthinger,
which does some stuff and might send
it to the all powerful cloud, or
it might send it to the Widgetizer
both of which ended up dumped into
the Enterprise- Ready Cylinder.
I used to be an architect.
If you take a look at your architecture,
which hopefully doesn't look anything
like this, and you just start attributing
to where are your bugs going?
When you get bugs in over the course
of a Sprint's iteration week,
month release whatever
you want to call it.
Where are they?
What parts of your system have issues?
If the Doerthinger has
zero bugs being reported,
it's probably relatively stable for
what you need to do with it.
But if the all powerful cloud,
or the video player has 51
bugs out of this, that's probably a part
that warrants some development attention.
Maybe it's a redesign that
needs to happen there.
Maybe there's something about
the development team or the design or
the architecture or the operations of
that component that is causing bugs.
And so, using just the idea of how
many bugs are happening as a proxy for
where, what parts of your system
need more design attention, and
you don't need anything big for this.
You don't need to go out and buy JIRA and
track system architecture components and
cross link and everything.
Just anecdotally, you and
your team know this, right?
If you just have, sit down and
think about all right, in the last month,
wherever your bugs been?
And you just think through what were
the big, hairy, nasty ones that really
pissed everybody off, and what parts of
your architecture did they come from.
You have a pretty clear idea of
where you need to focus attention.
So that's thoughts on design for
debuggability.
Paying more attention to what are some
things you can do in your app
to make each of these
phases of bugs easier.